Adaptability,"Powers up moves of the same type."
Aerilate,"Normal-type moves become Flying-type moves."
Aftermath,"Damages the attacker landing the finishing hit."
Air Lock,"Eliminates the effects of weather."
Analytic,"Boosts move power when the Pokémon moves last."
Anger Point,"Maxes Attack after taking a critical hit."
Anger Shell,"When an attack causes its HP to drop to half or less, the Pokémon gets angry. This lowers its Defense and Sp. Def stats but boosts its Attack, Sp. Atk, and Speed stats."
Anticipation,"Senses a foe's dangerous moves."
Arena Trap,"Prevents the foe from fleeing."
Armor Tail,"The mysterious tail covering the Pokémon's head makes opponents unable to use priority moves against the Pokémon or its allies."
Aroma Veil,"Protects allies from attacks that limit their move choices."
As One,"This Ability combines the effects of both Calyrex’s Unnerve Ability and Glastrier’s/Spectrier’s Chilling Neigh/Grim Neigh Ability."
Aura Break,"The effects of Aura Abilities are reversed."
Bad Dreams,"Reduces a sleeping foe's HP."
Ball Fetch,"Picks up failed Poké Balls in battle."
Battery,"Powers up ally Pokémon's special moves."
Battle Armor,"The Pokémon is protected against critical hits."
Battle Bond,"Transforms Greninja if it defeats a Pokémon."
Beads of Ruin,"The power of the Pokémon's ruinous beads lowers the Sp. Def stats of all Pokémon except itself."
Beast Boost,"Boosts highest stat upon knocking out a Pokémon."
Berserk,"Boosts Sp. Atk when HP drops below half."
Big Pecks,"Protects from Defense-lowering attacks."
Blaze,"Powers up Fire-type moves in a pinch."
Bulletproof,"Protects the Pokémon from some ball and bomb moves."
Cheek Pouch,"Restores HP as well when the Pokémon eats a Berry."
Chilling Neigh,"When the Pokémon knocks out a target, it utters a chilling neigh, which boosts its Attack stat."
Chlorophyll,"Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in sunshine."
Clear Body,"Prevents other Pokémon from lowering its stats."
Cloud Nine,"Eliminates the effects of weather."
Color Change,"Changes the Pokémon's type to the foe's move."
Comatose,"It's always drowsing. It can attack without waking up."
Commander,"When the Pokémon enters a battle, it goes inside the mouth of an ally Dondozo if one is on the field. The Pokémon then issues commands from there."
Competitive,"Boosts the Sp.Atk stat when a stat is lowered."
Compound Eyes,"The Pokémon's accuracy is boosted."
Contrary,"Makes stat changes have an opposite effect."
Corrosion,"The Pokémon can poison the target, regardless of its type."
Costar,"When the Pokémon enters a battle, it copies an ally's stat changes."
Cotton Down,"Lowers Speed of other Pokémon when hit."
Cud Chew,"When the Pokémon eats a Berry, it will regurgitate that Berry at the end of the next turn and eat it one more time."
Curious Medicine,"When the Pokémon enters a battle, it scatters medicine from its shell, which removes all stat changes from allies."
Cursed Body,"May disable a move used on the Pokémon."
Cute Charm,"Contact with the Pokémon may cause infatuation."
Damp,"Prevents the use of self-destructing moves."
Dancer,"Copies dance moves."
Dark Aura,"Powers up each Pokémon's Dark-type moves."
Dauntless Shield,"Boosts Defense upon entering battle."
Dazzling,"Blocks priority moves from opposing Pokémon."
Defeatist,"Lowers stats when HP becomes half or less."
Defiant,"When its stats are lowered its Attack increases."
Delta Stream,"Eliminates weather effects and eliminates weaknesses of Flying-type Pokémon."
Desolate Land,"Affects weather and nullifies any Water-type attacks."
Disguise,"Take 1 hit for free per battle."
Download,"Adjusts power according to a foe's defenses."
Dragon's Maw,"Powers up Dragon-type moves."
Drizzle,"The Pokémon makes it rain if it appears in battle."
Drought,"Turns the sunlight harsh if it is in battle."
Dry Skin,"Reduces HP if it is hot. Water restores HP."
Early Bird,"The Pokémon awakens quickly from sleep."
Earth Eater,"If hit by a Ground-type move, the Pokémon has its HP restored instead of taking damage."
Effect Spore,"Contact may poison or cause paralysis or sleep."
Electric Surge,"Summons Electric Terrain upon entering battle."
Electromorphosis,"The Pokémon becomes charged when it takes damage, boosting the power of the next Electric-type move the Pokémon uses."
Emergency Exit,"Switches out when HP drops below half."
Fairy Aura,"Powers up each Pokémon's Fairy-type moves."
Filter,"Reduces damage from supereffective attacks."
Flame Body,"Contact with the Pokémon may burn the attacker."
Flare Boost,"Powers up special attacks when burned."
Flash Fire,"It powers up Fire-type moves if it's hit by one."
Flower Gift,"Powers up party Pokémon when it is sunny."
Flower Veil,"Prevents lowering of ally Grass-type Pokémon's stats."
Fluffy,"Halves damage from contact moves, but doubles damage from Fire moves."
Forecast,"Castform transforms with the weather."
Forewarn,"Determines what moves a foe has."
Friend Guard,"Reduces damage done to allies."
Frisk,"The Pokémon can check a foe's held item."
Full Metal Body,"Prevents the Pokémon from having its stats lowered."
Fur Coat,"Halves damage from physical moves."
Gale Wings,"Gives priority to Flying-type moves."
Galvanize,"Normal moves become Electric moves."
Gluttony,"Encourages the early use of a held Berry."
Good as Gold,"A body of pure, solid gold gives the Pokémon full immunity to other Pokémon's status moves."
Gooey,"Contact with the Pokémon lowers the attacker's Speed stat."
Gorilla Tactics,"Boosts Attack but locks into 1 move."
Grass Pelt,"Boosts the Defense stat in Grassy Terrain."
Grassy Surge,"Summons Grassy Terrain upon entering battle."
Grim Neigh,"When the Pokémon knocks out a target, it utters a terrifying neigh, which boosts its Sp. Atk stat."
Guard Dog,"Boosts the Pokémon's Attack stat if intimidated. Moves and items that would force the Pokémon to switch out also fail to work."
Gulp Missile,"Captures and uses prey to attack."
Guts,"Boosts Attack if there is a status problem."
Hadron Engine,"Turns the ground into Electric Terrain when the Pokémon enters a battle. The futuristic engine within the Pokémon also boosts its Sp. Atk stat on Electric Terrain."
Harvest,"May create another Berry after one is used."
Healer,"May heal an ally's status conditions."
Heatproof,"Weakens the power of Fire-type moves."
Heavy Metal,"Doubles the Pokémon's weight."
Honey Gather,"The Pokémon may gather Honey from somewhere."
Huge Power,"Raises the Pokémon's Attack stat."
Hunger Switch,"Alternates between forms at the end of each turn."
Hustle,"Boosts the Attack stat, but lowers accuracy."
Hydration,"Heals status problems if it is raining."
Hyper Cutter,"Prevents other Pokémon from lowering Attack stat."
Ice Body,"The Pokémon gradually regains HP in a hailstorm."
Ice Face,"Head can negate Physical attack once."
Ice Scales,"Halves damage from Special moves."
Illuminate,"Raises the likelihood of meeting wild Pokémon."
Illusion,"Comes out disguised as the Pokémon in back."
Immunity,"Prevents the Pokémon from getting poisoned."
Imposter,"It transforms itself into the Pokémon it is facing."
Infiltrator,"Passes through the foe's barrier and strikes."
Innards Out,"Damages the attacker when knocked out."
Inner Focus,"The Pokémon is protected from flinching."
Insomnia,"Prevents the Pokémon from falling asleep."
Intimidate,"Lowers the foe's Attack stat."
Intrepid Sword,"Boosts Attack upon entering battle."
Iron Barbs,"Inflicts damage to the Pokémon on contact."
Iron Fist,"Boosts the power of punching moves."
Justified,"Raises Attack when hit by a Dark-type move."
Keen Eye,"Prevents other Pokémon from lowering accuracy."
Klutz,"The Pokémon can't use any held items."
Leaf Guard,"Prevents problems with status in sunny weather."
Levitate,"Gives full immunity to all Ground-type moves."
Libero,"Changes type to match move used."
Light Metal,"Halves the Pokémon's weight."
Lightning Rod,"Draws in all Electric-type moves to up Sp. Attack."
Limber,"The Pokémon is protected from paralysis."
Lingering Aroma,"Contact with the Pokémon changes the attacker's Ability to Lingering Aroma."
Liquid Ooze,"Damages attackers using any draining move."
Liquid Voice,"All sound-based moves become Water-type moves."
Long Reach,"No moves used by the Pokémon make contact."
Magic Bounce,"Reflects status-changing moves."
Magic Guard,"The Pokémon only takes damage from attacks."
Magician,"The Pokémon steals the held item of a Pokémon it hits with a move."
Magma Armor,"Prevents the Pokémon from becoming frozen."
Magnet Pull,"Prevents Steel-type Pokémon from escaping."
Marvel Scale,"Ups Defense if there is a status problem."
Mega Launcher,"Powers up aura and pulse moves."
Merciless,"Makes attacks critical when target is Poisoned."
Mimicry,"Changes type depending on the Field Effect."
Minus,"Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokémon has Plus or Minus."
Mirror Armor,"Bounces back stat-lowering effects."
Misty Surge,"Summons Misty Terrain upon entering battle."
Mold Breaker,"Moves can be used regardless of Abilities."
Moody,"Raises one stat and lowers another."
Motor Drive,"Raises Speed if hit by an Electric-type move."
Moxie,"Boosts Attack after knocking out any Pokémon."
Multiscale,"Reduces damage when HP is full."
Multitype,"Changes type to match the held Plate."
Mummy,"Contact with this Pokémon spreads this Ability."
Mycelium Might,"The Pokémon will always act more slowly when using status moves, but these moves will be unimpeded by the Ability of the target."
Natural Cure,"All status problems heal when it switches out."
Neuroforce,"Powers up Super-Effective moves."
Neutralizing Gas,"Suppresses all other Abilities."
No Guard,"Ensures attacks by or against the Pokémon land."
Normalize,"All the Pokémon's moves become the Normal type."
Oblivious,"Prevents it from becoming infatuated."
Opportunist,"If an opponent's stat is boosted, the Pokémon seizes the opportunity to boost the same stat for itself."
Orichalcum Pulse,"Turns the sunlight harsh when the Pokémon enters a battle. The ancient pulse thrumming through the Pokémon also boosts its Attack stat in harsh sunlight."
Overcoat,"Protects the Pokémon from damage from weather."
Overgrow,"Powers up Grass-type moves in a pinch."
Own Tempo,"Prevents the Pokémon from becoming confused."
Parental Bond,"Parent and child attack together."
Pastel Veil,"Prevents Poisoning the Pokémon and its allies."
Perish Body,"Summons Perish Song when hit with contact."
Pickpocket,"Steals an item when hit by another Pokémon."
Pickup,"The Pokémon may pick up items."
Pixilate,"Normal-type moves become Fairy-type moves."
Plus,"Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokémon has Plus or Minus."
Poison Heal,"Restores HP if the Pokémon is poisoned."
Poison Point,"Contact with the Pokémon may poison the attacker."
Poison Touch,"May poison targets when a Pokémon makes contact."
Power Construct,"Becomes stronger when HP drops below half."
Power of Alchemy,"The Pokémon copies the Ability of a defeated ally."
Power Spot,"Powers up moves of an ally."
Prankster,"Gives priority to a status move."
Pressure,"The Pokémon raises the foe's PP usage."
Primordial Sea,"Affects weather and nullifies any Fire-type attacks."
Prism Armor,"Reduces the power of supereffective attacks taken."
Propeller Tail,"Prevents move redirection."
Protean,"Changes the Pokémon's type to the same type of the move it is using."
Protosynthesis,"Boosts the Pokémon's most proficient stat in harsh sunlight or if the Pokémon is holding Booster Energy."
Psychic Surge,"Summons Psychic Terrain upon entering battle."
Punk Rock,"Boosts Sound-based moves and reduces their damage."
Pure Power,"Raises the Pokémon's Attack stat."
Purifying Salt,"The Pokémon's pure salt protects it from status conditions and halves the damage taken from Ghost-type moves."
Quark Drive,"Boosts the Pokémon's most proficient stat on Electric Terrain or if the Pokémon is holding Booster Energy."
Queenly Majesty,"The Pokémon can't be hit by priority moves."
Quick Draw,"Enables the Pokémon to move first occasionally."
Quick Feet,"Boosts Speed if there is a status problem."
Rain Dish,"The Pokémon gradually regains HP in rain."
Rattled,"Some move types scare it and boost its Speed."
Receiver,"The Pokémon copies the Ability of a defeated ally."
Reckless,"Powers up moves that have recoil damage."
Refrigerate,"Normal-type moves become Ice-type moves."
Regenerator,"Restores a little HP when withdrawn from battle."
Ripen,"Ripens Berries and doubles their effect."
Rivalry,"Deals more damage to a foe of the same gender."
RKS System,"Changes type to match the held memory disc."
Rock Head,"Protects the Pokémon from recoil damage."
Rocky Payload,"Powers up Rock-type moves."
Rough Skin,"Inflicts damage to the foe on contact."
Run Away,"Enables a sure getaway from wild Pokémon."
Sand Force,"Boosts certain moves' power in a sandstorm."
Sand Rush,"Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in a sandstorm."
Sand Spit,"Creates a Sandstorm when hit by an attack."
Sand Stream,"The Pokémon summons a sandstorm in battle."
Sand Veil,"Boosts the Pokémon's evasion in a sandstorm."
Sap Sipper,"Boosts Attack when hit by a Grass-type move."
Schooling,"Schools together when HP is high."
Scrappy,"Enables moves to hit Ghost-type Pokémon."
Screen Cleaner,"Clears all screens when entering battle."
Seed Sower,"Turns the ground into Grassy Terrain when the Pokémon is hit by an attack."
Serene Grace,"Boosts the likelihood of added effects appearing."
Shadow Shield,"Reduces damage taken while HP is full."
Shadow Tag,"Prevents the foe from escaping."
Sharpness,"Powers up slicing moves."
Shed Skin,"The Pokémon may heal its own status problems."
Sheer Force,"Removes added effects to increase move damage."
Shell Armor,"The Pokémon is protected against critical hits."
Shield Dust,"Blocks the added effects of attacks taken."
Shields Down,"Comes out of shell when HP drops below half."
Simple,"The Pokémon is prone to wild stat changes."
Skill Link,"Increases the frequency of multi-strike moves."
Slow Start,"Temporarily halves Attack and Speed."
Slush Rush,"Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in a hailstorm."
Sniper,"Powers up moves if they become critical hits."
Snow Cloak,"Raises evasion in a hailstorm."
Snow Warning,"The Pokémon summons a hailstorm in battle."
Solar Power,"In sunshine, Sp. Atk is boosted but HP decreases."
Solid Rock,"Reduces damage from supereffective attacks."
Soul Heart,"Boosts its Sp. Atk every time a Pokémon faints."
Soundproof,"Gives full immunity to all sound-based moves."
Speed Boost,"Its Speed stat is gradually boosted."
Stakeout,"Deals double damage to targets switching in."
Stall,"The Pokémon moves after all other Pokémon do."
Stalwart,"Prevents move redirection."
Stamina,"Boosts Defense when hit by an attack."
Stance Change,"The Pokémon changes form depending on how it battles."
Static,"Contact with the Pokémon may cause paralysis."
Steadfast,"Raises Speed each time the Pokémon flinches."
Steam Engine,"Water and Fire moves boost Speed."
Steelworker,"Powers up Steel-type moves."
Steely Spirit,"Powers up ally Pokémon's Steel-type moves."
Stench,"The stench may cause the target to flinch."
Sticky Hold,"Protects the Pokémon from item theft."
Storm Drain,"Draws in all Water-type moves to up Sp. Attack."
Strong Jaw,"The Pokémon's strong jaw gives it tremendous biting power."
Sturdy,"It cannot be knocked out with one hit."
Suction Cups,"Negates all moves that force switching out."
Super Luck,"Heightens the critical-hit ratios of moves."
Supreme Overlord,"When the Pokémon enters a battle, its Attack and Sp. Atk stats are slightly boosted for each of the allies in its party that have already been defeated."
Surge Surfer,"Doubles Speed on Electric Terrain."
Swarm,"Powers up Bug-type moves in a pinch."
Sweet Veil,"Prevents itself and its allies from falling asleep."
Swift Swim,"Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in rain."
Sword of Ruin,"The power of the Pokémon's ruinous sword lowers the Defense stats of all Pokémon except itself."
Symbiosis,"The Pokémon can pass an item to an ally."
Synchronize,"Passes a burn, poison, or paralysis to the foe."
Tablets of Ruin,"The power of the Pokémon's ruinous wooden tablets lowers the Attack stats of all Pokémon except itself."
Tangled Feet,"Raises evasion if the Pokémon is confused."
Tangling Hair,"Contact with the Pokémon lowers Speed."
Technician,"Powers up the Pokémon's weaker moves."
Telepathy,"Anticipates an ally's attack and dodges it."
Teravolt,"Moves can be used regardless of Abilities."
Thermal Exchange,"Boosts the Attack stat when the Pokémon is hit by a Fire-type move. The Pokémon also cannot be burned."
Thick Fat,"Ups resistance to Fire- and Ice-type moves."
Tinted Lens,"Powers up "not very effective" moves."
Torrent,"Powers up Water-type moves in a pinch."
Tough Claws,"Powers up moves that make direct contact."
Toxic Boost,"Powers up physical attacks when poisoned."
Toxic Debris,"Scatters poison spikes at the feet of the opposing team when the Pokémon takes damage from physical moves."
Trace,"The Pokémon copies a foe's Ability."
Transistor,"Powers up Electric-type moves."
Triage,"Gives priority to healing moves."
Truant,"Pokémon can't attack on consecutive turns."
Turboblaze,"Moves can be used regardless of Abilities."
Unaware,"Ignores any stat changes in the Pokémon."
Unburden,"Raises Speed if a held item is used."
Unnerve,"Makes the foe nervous and unable to eat Berries."
Unseen Fist,"Bypasses Protect with contact moves."
Vessel of Ruin,"The power of the Pokémon's ruinous vessel lowers the Sp. Atk stats of all Pokémon except itself."
Victory Star,"Boosts the accuracy of its allies and itself."
Vital Spirit,"Prevents the Pokémon from falling asleep."
Volt Absorb,"Restores HP if hit by an Electric-type move."
Wandering Spirit,"Switches Abilities when hit with a contact move."
Water Absorb,"Restores HP if hit by a Water-type move."
Water Bubble,"Boosts Water moves, weakens received Fire moves, and prevents Burn."
Water Compaction,"Boosts Defense when hit by a Water-type move."
Water Veil,"Prevents the Pokémon from getting a burn."
Weak Armor,"Physical attacks lower Defense and raise Speed."
Well Baked Body,"The Pokémon takes no damage when hit by Fire-type moves. Instead, its Defense stat is sharply boosted."
White Smoke,"Prevents other Pokémon from lowering its stats."
Wimp Out,"Switches the Pokémon out when its HP drops below half."
Wind Power,"The Pokémon becomes charged when it is hit by a wind move, boosting the power of the next Electric-type move the Pokémon uses."
Wind Rider,"Boosts the Pokémon's Attack stat if Tailwind takes effect or if the Pokémon is hit by a wind move. The Pokémon also takes no damage from wind moves."
Wonder Guard,"Only super-effective moves will hit."
Wonder Skin,"Makes status-changing moves more likely to miss."
Zen Mode,"Changes the Pokémon's shape when HP is halved."
Zero to Hero,"The Pokémon transforms into its Hero Form when it switches out."
